Postman is a popular API development and testing tool that lets you send HTTP requests to your server endpoints and see the 
responses without needing to build a front-end client. Essentially, it's like a virtual API client that helps you:

Develop & Test APIs: Easily send requests (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.) to your endpoints.
Debug: Check responses, status codes, and headers to verify that your API works as expected.
Document: Organize your endpoints and share API collections with teammates.


Next Steps with Postman:
Verify Insertion:
You can check your MongoDB database (using a tool like MongoDB Compass) to see that the users from your JSON file have been inserted.
Testing API Endpoints:
Use Postman to send API requests to your endpoints. For example, to add a recipe for a user:
Create a POST request to:
http://localhost:3000/users/<USER_ID>/recipes
Replace <USER_ID> with a valid MongoDB ObjectId from one of the inserted users.
In the Body of the request, use raw JSON such as:
{
  "title": "Spaghetti Carbonara",
  "description": "A classic Italian pasta dish.",
  "ingredients": ["spaghetti", "eggs", "parmesan cheese", "pancetta", "pepper"],
  "steps": ["Boil pasta", "Cook pancetta", "Mix eggs and cheese", "Combine ingredients"]
}
Click Send to add the recipe.



3. Key Features and Usage

Creating API Requests
Request Methods:
Postman supports standard HTTP methods such as GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, PATCH, etc.
Configuring Requests:
URL & Method: Enter the API endpoint and choose the appropriate HTTP method.
Headers & Params: Add necessary headers (e.g., Content-Type, Authorization) and query parameters.
Body: For methods like POST and PUT, configure the body (raw, form-data, x-www-form-urlencoded, etc.).
Collections and Environments
Collections:
Group related API requests into collections. This helps in organizing, sharing, and automating tests for your APIs.
Environments:
Use environments to store variables (such as API keys, tokens, or endpoints) that change between development, staging, and production. This makes it easy to switch contexts without manually updating each request.
Scripting and Testing
Pre-request Scripts:
Execute JavaScript before a request is sent. This is useful for setting dynamic parameters or headers.
Test Scripts:
Write tests in JavaScript to validate response status codes, data formats, and content. Tests run automatically after the response is received.
Example:

pm.test("Status code is 200", function () {
    pm.response.to.have.status(200);
});
Debugging and Monitoring
Postman Console:
Use the console to debug requests and inspect logs, headers, and other details. It’s a great tool for troubleshooting.
Collection Runner & Monitors:
Automate the running of your collections using the Collection Runner. You can also schedule monitors to run tests at set intervals to keep track of API performance and availability.
